the crops are ready for
harvesting but Palestinian Farmers have
lost access to their main customers in
Israel since October the 7th Israel's
military has effectively sealed off the
occupied West
Bank the Jordan Valley is palestine's
food basket we produce most of the West
Bank's products Peppers Kett oin
everything comes from this region when
the crossings to Israel are closed all
of these goods go to the local markets
which causes the prices to drop on
Sunday we don't sell
anything just getting to Market is a
challenge Palestinians are forced to
take circuitous routes through the
occupied West Bank to avoid Israeli
settlements the quickest Road for us
today is 40 km it should take 30 minutes
but it's only open to Israelis
Palestinians have to take a major detour
it adds 110 km to our journey in the
past 5 weeks more checkpoints and road
closures have
appeared some checkpoints are only open
from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. this causes
problems and it also causes harm to the
small villages we have to detour through
90 minutes later we get to the market
it's almost
deserted before October the 7th this was
a packed wholesale Market with fruit
from Israel and vegetables from the West
Bank but now Israel has put in a
checkpoint just outside there and that's
choked off access to the market because
it's stopping Palestinians using a main
road that passes through a nearby
Village and the Israelis have done that
to protect the settlers who live all
around
here prices of vegetables have more than
hared shifts have been cut some
businesses have closed
down we're constantly afraid so much so
that when we come to work for example
and from from nabalis and I have to
leave home at 1: in the morning when the
checkpoint isn't busy because if I get
there later I could be stuck for more
than 2 hours which impacts my work here
as settlements expand and new ones
appear those weights at checkpoints get
longer and longer significantly
disrupting businesses as well as the
lives of the Palestinians forced to
endure them Bernard Smith Al jazer beta
in the occupied West
Bank make sure to Subs subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer